I think as healthcare providers we need to take that initiative
to push the boundaries. The Anne Vogel Clinic is
a clinic primarily for folks with opioid use disorder. We have multiple
doctors on our team, medical providers, we also have some nurse practitioners
and they all do opioid agonist therapy prescribing, or some people call
OAT or O R T, Opioid Replacement Therapy.
And then there are a few of us allied health. There are two
part time social workers, I'm one of them. There's a
registered clinical counselor and there's also a full time outreach worker
which has been a new addition to the clinic over the last year
and that has been really, really helpful. Everyone has noticed at the clinic
that more people are engaged, more people are coming to appointments.
We have someone on the ground in the community maintaining those really
important relationships. We do you know various forms of trauma, grief,
counseling, substance use counseling. We specifically work with Richmond
residents. We're harm reduction as well so we have a lot of harm
reduction supplies. It's really client led and we try to meet people where
they're at and let them lead their journey.
We serve people who are living in the modular housing buildings,
the temporary modulars, the emergency response center shelter, the Salvation
Army, shelter Richmond House and people who are also working full time and
have a past history of opioid use disorder. But from what I'm gathering
from speaking with clients at the clinic and as I get to know
everybody, they feel really welcomed to come into the clinic.
They know that they get solid advocacy and now outreach services
from us and then in terms of stigma
and anti stigma work, what else can we do to make this a
more welcoming, decolonizing, less institutional place where people feel
comfortable coming in and getting their needs met and getting services that
they require. We don't want to be punishing
people for using. I think we've seen many many times that that approach
doesn't work and we are just trying to increase
feelings of safety, establish that relationship and keep inviting people
back. I think one of the big things we can do is language.
Watch our language and be mindful of our language. Did someone have a
clean urine? How much clean time? What is the opposite of that?
It's dirty and so are we saying people who aren't clean are dirty?
Drug addict. Let's use people centered and person first language. So a person
who uses substances, a person who uses drugs. I've had first hand experience
accompanying countless clients to emergency departments, interacting with
paramedics in hospital rooms, the hospital system and community health care
systems as well and it makes such a difference if someone feels validated,
supported, dignified, treated with respect and dignity as opposed to
being spoken about in the third person. I've had health care workers address
me as opposed to the client when we're in the same room together
and I always say why don't you ask them?
They're right here. I think we have some really great people on mental
health and substance use teams right now who
I'm speaking with and who seem so committed
to doing anti stigma work, anti racism work, decolonial work
and really walking the walk and not just giving lip service to it.
Richmond can be a somewhat conservative community. I have confidence in
the Vancouver Coastal teams and who's leading them right now and I think
as long as we keep the communication, lines of communication open,
we will continue to push the envelope for equitable,
safe, trauma informed care that our patients in Richmond need and deserve.